Now, our text today
really brings to our attention
the close attention and affection
that our God, Jehovah, has for each of us,
especially when we’re living
under extreme or stressful times.
And this is really brought home to us;
the fact that under inspiration,
the apostle Paul was moved
to write to the Ephesian congregation
these beautiful words of our text today.
And why?
Because that congregation
was under an extreme amount of pressure
from the world around them.
The city of Ephesus was very materialistic.
It was wealthy,
and it was just steeped
in spiritism and demonism.
The culture was based upon the religion
of false gods, such as Artemis.
In fact, they boasted that they had
the great temple of Artemis in Ephesus,
which is considered to be
one of the seven wonders
of the ancient world.
And so Ephesus was a tourist destination,
and many made their wealth in money
from selling a religious article
such as idols
to those that would come there to worship.
This type of worship
fostered immorality and crime,
since within that temple arrangement,
no one could be charged
with any kind of crime.
And of course,
it fostered immoral thinking and activities.
So any time our brothers
went out to work or school,
they were facing, or dealing with,
this intense pressure
from a culture that was in sharp contrast
to doing God’s will.
They stood in danger
of violating or having
their Christian integrity compromised.
Well, now,
this all sounds very familiar to us
because we are living deep
in the time of the end.
In fact,
the world is in an Ephesuslike condition.
even worse, “because the Devil
has come down to [the earth],
having great anger.”
And he wants to destroy us all,
especially we who are God’s people.
So, therefore,
we need to pay very close attention
to the the counsel, the loving counsel,
that Jehovah gave to the Ephesians.
And he preserved it for our day
because we need to pay close attention
to what Jehovah told the Ephesians
to preserve them alive there in that time,
their spiritual lives,
and how important it is for us today.
Now, in reviewing this counsel,
if you want to open your Bibles
to Ephesians chapter 6,
we definitely get the impression,
or the feeling,
that this is a loving heavenly Father
talking to his children.
Notice right away in verse 11
what Jehovah tells all of us to do.
He says to “put on the complete suit
of armor from God
so that you may be able to stand firm
against the crafty acts of the Devil.”
Now, what does this sound like to you?
For me, it reminds me
of a parent talking to a child
before he goes out when the weather is bad,
and he says, “Put on your coat.”
In fact, he helps them put on his coat
and puts a hat on his child
and makes sure his gloves are on
and puts his boots on
and all the time talking:
“We want you to stay warm and safe and dry
“because we don’t want you to get sick.
We want you to be safe and healthy.”
And I can remember with my own mom
when she would dress me up
before I went out the door,
she would always slip
some change in my pocket.
It was back in the days of pay phones.
And she said:
“You know, any time you feel you’re stuck
“or you’re in trouble, you give me a call.
I’m just a phone call away.”
Well, in many ways,
Jehovah is like this loving parent.
He dresses us up to face
the spiritual battles of our day.
But he goes even further
to show his personal concern.
And this is where
our text for today comes in.
In verse 18 it says:
“With every form
of prayer and supplication
“you carry on prayer on every occasion
in spirit.”
Yes, the days are very wicked,
and Jehovah knows that there are things
that we’re going to be faced with
that we need to talk to him about.
But it’s not just the things
that are of great, serious concern.
No, there are things that,
all things in life,
he wants us to talk to him about.
And why is that?
It’s interesting
what the Insight  volume has to say
in Insight,  Volume 2,
under the subject of “Prayer.”
In talking about our personal prayers
to Jehovah,
it made this comment.
It says: “Personal prayers . . . may embrace
virtually every facet of life.”
But for our prayers to be heard,
we must be wholly “on God’s side
in the issue
involving Jehovah’s sovereignty.”
Now, this is in keeping
with the spirit of the model prayer
that Jesus taught us to pray.
Embodied in that prayer
were all things
that are important to a Christian’s life.
And what is of foremost importance to us?
It’s the sanctification of God’s name
and that God’s will be done
by means of his Kingdom.
As dedicated servants of Jehovah God,
this is what our life is all about.
Our daily life involves
this matter of Jehovah’s name
and the Kingdom.
It’s tied up in our Christian integrity
of upholding Jehovah’s name
and the Kingdom interests.
And that’s why Jehovah says,
‘Pray on every occasion.’
And what he’s telling us
is that “everything in your life involves me.
“I gave my Son for you.
“I want to hear what’s going on in your life.
“I want to be a part of your life.
“You are important to me.
You’re my fellow worker.
You’re helping me accomplish
my will and purpose.”
Therefore, we should never hold back
from praying to Jehovah
even about minor things that may come up.
And why?
Because communication
is the lifeblood of a strong relationship,
especially with Jehovah God.
Again, we go back
to the illustration of children.
You know, a child will sit there
and just talk and talk
and talk and talk about all kinds of things,
maybe even seemingly insignificant things.
But a parent listens to them
with a smile on his face.
They’re overjoyed because they’re hearing
what the child thinks, what’s on his heart.
But it also is an opportunity to establish
good lines of communication with that child
and establish a loving bond with him
to hear his innermost thoughts.
Does Jehovah hear our innermost thoughts?
Does he hear times of joy,
why we’re so happy,
expressing gratitude for a beautiful day,
a starry night, a shooting star,
beavers on the lake?
Such prayers are not just chatter
to Jehovah God,
but it’s what endears us to him.
This establishes a strong line
of communication with Jehovah God
that we need during these critical last days.
Jesus says that every day
we have anxieties and problems.
We have to deal with our own imperfect flesh
that can cause us great distress,
among other things.
But notice what the sons of Korah said
in Psalm 46:1, under inspiration.
Notice how they felt about Jehovah;
it says:
“God is our refuge and strength,
a help that is readily found
in times of distress.”
In times of distress,
we need to go to Jehovah God,
and if we’ve been talking to him
about every little thing in our life,
well, that line of communication
is immediate.
We go to him without hesitation.
We reveal to him
what is causing us pain in our hearts,
our innermost thoughts,
dealing with our imperfections
and sinful nature.
You know this is where the disciple James
under inspiration at James 4:8
tells us during these times:
“Draw close to God
“and he will draw close to you.
Cleanse your hands, you sinners.”
We think back
to the stress of our brothers in Ephesus.
They walked out the door
and perhaps maybe they heard something,
they saw something
that brought back to their minds
an improper thought or a feeling
that they thought they had licked
—that they thought
they had gotten control of—
and there it is rearing its ugly head.
They went to Jehovah in prayer.
They talked to him about that.
Does the same thing happen to us?
Of course it does.
We’re imperfect.
Our hearts are always leaning
toward what is bad.
And so we need to lean on Jehovah God
to pray to him,
to let him know how we feel,
and to express our thoughts
so that “we [can bring]
every thought into captivity
[and] make it obedient to the Christ”.
See, prayer can make that happen.
Jehovah can help us to remove those thoughts
and bring them under control
so they do not affect our peace
and our joy in our heart.
Jehovah truly is our loving Father,
and he’s greatly concerned
for each and every one of us.
And he wants to help us.
He wants to be part of our life
so that we can be successful
in fighting “the fine fight [for] the faith”
and maintaining our integrity
to him each and every day.
Therefore, let this day be another day
in which our precious relationship
with Jehovah God is strengthened
because we have gone to him
on every occasion in prayer.